[DOCS] Create a tutorial for how to validate unstructured data in GX Cloud (#11380)
great-expectations/great_expectations: docs/docusaurus/docs/reference/learn/data_quality_use_cases/unstructured_data.md

---

> sidebar_label: 'Unstructured Data'

Reviewer: Page titles should be sentence case

```suggestion
sidebar_label: 'Unstructured data'
```

> title: 'Validate unstructured data with GX'

Reviewer: I see that this title is modeled after the other "Data quality use cases" titles. But this page, unlike the others, is focused on GX Cloud. The other pages present Cloud and Core workflows with parity. Perhaps this page title should specify Cloud

```suggestion
title: 'Validate unstructured data with GX Cloud'
```

> ---

Reviewer: The page should have a description for SEO. Here's the syntax for adding one:

```suggestion
description: insert description here
---
```

> This tutorial provides a working, hands-on example of how to validate unstructured data using sample PDF data using GX Cloud. The generated metadata during the OCR process on a PDF contains information like confidence scores, word counts, etc. GX Cloud allows you to set up data quality checks on this metadata to maximize the confidence in your unstructured data, all while allowing your entire organization to view the results. 

Reviewer: The flow of this intro feels a bit backwards to me with the specifics of the content coming before the general problem the content helps users solves. I suggest changing this so the intro starts with the problem, then describes how GX helps solve the problem, then outlines how the tutorial will help readers learn to apply the solution. 

Also I didn't understand what was special about unstructured data until I read the related [blog post](https://greatexpectations.io/blog/the-unstructured-data-quality-crisis-and-why-gx-is-your-solution/) so I think it would be helpful to include more of the problem framing from the blog post in this docs page. I find these blurbs particularly helpful for my understanding

>unstructured data becomes manageable the moment you start treating its metadata as structured data you can validate.

> The breakthrough insight: Every piece of unstructured content generates metadata that tells a story about quality. An OCR process on a PDF doesn't just extract text; it produces confidence scores, word counts, language detection results, and processing timestamps. A document ingestion pipeline captures file hashes, sizes, creation dates, and source systems. This metadata is your quality control surface.”

---- 

Some other smaller notes about the intro:

- The style guide says we shouldn't use "etc." since it's a Latin abbreviation. I think we should avoid "etc." as unhelpfully vague. I suggest putting another example column in place of "etc.". The use of "like" earlier in the sentence already indicates this list is non-exhaustive.

- in case readers aren't familiar with the abbreviation OCR, the first instance of this abbreviation should be accompanied by the full term

- the repetition of the word "using" in the first sentence feels a bit clunky. Could the repetition be avoided? 

- the phrasing of "The generated metadata during the OCR process on a PDF..." feels backwards to me. The phrasing in the blog post is easier for me to follow "An OCR process on a PDF doesn't just extract text; it produces ..."

- The use of "entire organization" will be misleading once multiple workspaces is released. I suggest changing this to a term that isn't a GX entity like "business" or "collaborators"

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: In other comments I highlighted a few places where interactions with GX-specific concepts are mentioned without the concepts themselves being defined or explained. I suggested providing more explicit information about these in the page. But, another approach could be to add something like the “prerequisite knowledge” section that’s on the other data quality use case pages:

> Prerequisite knowledge
> This article assumes basic familiarity with GX components and workflows. If you're new to GX, start with the [GX Cloud](https://docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/cloud/overview/gx_cloud_overview) and [GX Core](https://docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/core/introduction) overviews to familiarize yourself with key concepts and setup procedures.

- [Python version 3.9 to 3.12](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
- Bash shell

> - A code editor

Reviewer: Is Bash Shell the only supported shell for this workflow? Elsewhere when we mention Bash we typically also mention Z Shell. If Z Shell is also supported, I suggest dropping both of these two prereqs. If only bash is supported, then it makes sense to keep that prereq but I think the code editor prereq should be dropped. Most prereq sections don't get into this level of detail

- A [GX Cloud account](https://greatexpectations.io/cloud)

> - Your [Cloud user access token and Cloud organization ID](/cloud/connect/connect_python.md#get-your-user-access-token-and-organization-id) saved in your [environment variables](/cloud/connect/connect_python.md#set-the-gx-cloud-organization-id-and-user-access-token-as-environment-variables)

Reviewer: Once workspaces are released, folks will also need their workspace ID if they're in an org with multiple workspaces. Here's a suggestion to account for that similar to how I'm updating many prereqs in the [workspaces PR](https://github.com/great-expectations/great_expectations/pull/11366/files). Workspaces is set to release midday tomorrow so I'm expecting that release will be done before these updates are published. 

```suggestion
Your [Cloud credentials](/cloud/connect/connect_python.md#get-your-credentials) saved in your [environment variables](/cloud/connect/connect_python.md#set-your-credentials-as-environment-variables).
```

> ## Step 1: Install dependencies

Reviewer: This style of numbered "Step x:" H2s isn't used anywhere else in the docs. The "Step x:" preface should be dropped from each header and the substeps within each section should be formatted as numbered lists. These changes are for both consistency and readability.

Open a terminal window and navigate to the folder you want to use for this tutorial.

> Install [poppler](https://poppler.freedesktop.org/) and [tesseract](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract).

Reviewer: Though there are links to follow for more info, it could be nice to briefly explain here what these two libraries are for so people don't feel like they're blindly following instructions they don't understand

> ```bash

Reviewer: The `bash` code blocks should have a "Terminal input" title

```suggestion
```bash title="Terminal input"
```

brew install poppler
brew install tesseract
```

Optional. Create a Python virtual environment and start it.

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash title="Terminal input"
```

python -m venv my_venv
source my_venv/bin/activate
```

Install the Python libraries that you will use in this tutorial, including the Great Expectations library.

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash title="Terminal input"
```

pip install datasets
pip install pdf2image
pip install pytesseract
pip install great_expectations
```

> Create the Python file for this project.

Reviewer: This action feels a bit unrelated to installing dependencies. I suggest moving it to the next section since creating the python file is more related to importing libraries in the file.

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash title="Terminal input"
```

touch gx_unstructured_data.py
```

> ## Step 2: Import the required Python libraries

Reviewer: I find it weird that there's a section dedicated to imports while more than half the imports on this page (5 out of 9) happen outside of the dedicated import section. Is it possible to move all the imports back to the dedicated import section? If no, is it possible to fully dissolve this section into other ones or reframe it to address the disconnect I'm seeing?

Author: I had actually grouped everything together originally, but we decided to pull out the PDF processing code block into its own Python file so that it doesn't get tested as part of CI (avoiding the installation of dependencies that aren't needed anywhere else in the code). We decided to do this because the processing code isn't really the piece that we need to be testing. 

The side effect of doing this is that including imports that aren't then used later in the code (e.g. pytesseact), our rendering engine automatically removes them from the code samples on the docs page.

Reviewer: Thanks for the explanation. I still think the reading experience will be weird for users who don't know or care about the internal reasoning for the structure of the code samples. I'll add a suggestion for adjusting the framing so that readers hopefully aren't surprised/confused to see imports outside of the section dedicated to imports.

Open the Python file in your code editor of choice. 

Import the libraries you will be using in this tutorial.

```python title="Python" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/reference/learn/data_quality_use_cases/unstructured_data/unstructured_data.py - import the libraries"
```

> ## Step 3: Load the dataset and convert it into a dataframe

Reviewer: The dataset is about JFK's assassination. Is there a less politically charged dataset that we could use instead? I don't think people will get into the details of each pdf, but given political assassinations in the news, I think it would be best to not risk the topic of assassination coming up in readers minds as they work through this tutorial

Author: I tried to look for other suitable datasets, but I couldn't find any. If you have a suggestion, we can plug it in pretty easily.

Reviewer: thanks for looking. I took a look but also didn't find anything else.

> This tutorial uses the [broadfield-dev/pdf-ocr-dataset Hugging Face open source data set](https://huggingface.co/datasets/broadfield-dev/pdf-ocr-dataset). You will convert the first page of each PDF into an image, run OCR on that  page and finally extract the metrics from it.

Reviewer: The docs use the oxford comma.

we tend to style dataset as one word

I find the link text hard to read since it's so long and starts with the most granular details about the link destination

```suggestion
This tutorial uses an [open source dataset of PDFs from Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/datasets/broadfield-dev/pdf-ocr-dataset). You will convert the first page of each PDF into an image, run OCR on that  page, and finally extract the metrics from it.
```

> Load the dataset.

Reviewer: It looks like `split="train[:5]"` in the associated code sample makes it so that  only the first 5 pdfs are loaded. I think it would be helpful to acknowledge that either here or in a comment displayed in the code sample. The preceding paragraph also implies that all PDFs will be processed

> You will convert the first page of each PDF into an image 

Depending on the change you make here or in the code sample, that line may need to change as well for accuracy and clarity.

```python title="Python" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/reference/learn/data_quality_use_cases/unstructured_data/unstructured_data.py - load the dataset"
```

Iterate through the PDFs, converting the first page into an image before running OCR and storing the metrics.

```python title="Python" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/reference/learn/data_quality_use_cases/unstructured_data/unstructured_data.py - iterate through the data"
```

Convert the metrics into a dataframe for validation.

```python title="Python" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/reference/learn/data_quality_use_cases/unstructured_data/unstructured_data.py - convert the data into a dataframe"
```

> ## Step 4: Initialize a GX Data Context and related GX entities

Reviewer: This header is both very specific (using the term "Data Context" without the term having been defined previously on the page) and vague ("related GX entities") I suggest revising this to hit a middle ground of clear plain language

this suggestion also incorporates another comment about removing the numbered preface from each header

```suggestion
## Connect to GX Cloud and define Expectations
```

> In this tutorial, you will connect to your GX Cloud organization using the GX Cloud API. You will either get or create a pandas Data Source and a dataframe Data Asset. The batch definition will use the whole dataframe that you created in the previous step.

Reviewer: "batch definition" should be styled as a proper noun - "Batch Definition". That being said, the mention of "batch definition" in this paragraph is the first time the concept comes up on the page and I'm worried that readers won't understand what this term means. I think it would be helpful to explain the concept as it's introduced here.

> Instantiate the GX Data Context and get or create the Data Source, Data Asset and Batch Definition.

Reviewer: oxford comma

```suggestion
Instantiate the GX Data Context and get or create the Data Source, Data Asset, and Batch Definition.
```

```python title="Python" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/reference/learn/data_quality_use_cases/unstructured_data/unstructured_data.py - create the GX entities"
```

> Get or create an Expectation Suite and create Expectations to validate the metrics generated from the PDFs. This tutorial utilizes the ExpectColumnValuesToBetween Expectation in order to validate that the metrics we stored in the dataframe meet our parameters. You can also try using different Expectations or value ranges.

Reviewer: typo and inline code styling

```suggestion
Get or create an Expectation Suite and create Expectations to validate the metrics generated from the PDFs. This tutorial utilizes the `ExpectColumnValuesToBeBetween` Expectation in order to validate that the metrics we stored in the dataframe meet our parameters. You can also try using different Expectations or value ranges.
```

> Get or create an Expectation Suite and create Expectations to validate the metrics generated from the PDFs. This tutorial utilizes the ExpectColumnValuesToBetween Expectation in order to validate that the metrics we stored in the dataframe meet our parameters. You can also try using different Expectations or value ranges.

Reviewer: the branded term "Expectation Suite" is used here without being previously defined or explained. I think it would be helpful to more explicitly explain this concept to the reader

```python title="Python" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/reference/learn/data_quality_use_cases/unstructured_data/unstructured_data.py - create the expectation suite"
```

> ## Step 5: Create a Validation Definition and create and run the Checkpoint

Reviewer: Similar to some other notes, I worry that it's confusing for this header to use branded terms before they are defined. I suggest changing this to frame the section in terms of the goal achieved by completing the substeps rather than a summary of the substeps

```suggestion
## Validate your Expectations
```

> GX uses a Validation Definition to link the Batch Definition and Expectation Suite. The Checkpoint will be used to execute Validations so that you can view the results through the GX Cloud UI.

Reviewer: "so that" feels a bit misleading in this sentence. I feel like that wording implies that other ways to run validations don't provide results in the UI. But, as far as I know, if someone runs a Validation Definition directly, then those results do show up in the UI (source: https://greatexpectations.atlassian.net/browse/GX-123)

> GX uses a Validation Definition to link the Batch Definition and Expectation Suite. The Checkpoint will be used to execute Validations so that you can view the results through the GX Cloud UI.

Reviewer: I find the mix of indefinite and definite articles between "a Validation Definition" and, "the Batch Definition", and "The checkpoint" a bit odd.  I think it could be more clear to go all in one way or the other

```python title="Python" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/reference/learn/data_quality_use_cases/unstructured_data/unstructured_data.py - create the vd and run the checkpoint"
```

> ## Step 6: Review the Results

Reviewer: We don't tend to capitalize "Results" on its own, the proper noun styling is for the full form "Validation Results"

Below suggestion includes removing numbered preface per another note.

```suggestion
## Review the results
```

> Now that you have set up the Data Source, Data Asset, Expectations and have run the Checkpoint, the Validation results can be viewed in your GX Cloud organization. 

Reviewer: oxford comma

proper noun

The phrasing "can be viewed in your GX Cloud organization" will be misleading once workspaces are released.

```suggestion
Now that you have set up the Data Source, Data Asset, Expectations, and have run the Checkpoint, the Validation Results can be viewed in the GX Cloud UI. 
```

> Log into GX Cloud, navigate to the Data Assets page and find the Data Asset that we used earlier in the tutorial.

Reviewer: typo and oxford comma

references to UI buttons/labels should be bold

I think it would be more clear to reference the asset by name

```suggestion
Log in to GX Cloud, navigate to the **Data Assets** page, and find the `OCR Results` Data Asset that we used earlier in the tutorial.
```

> ![View Data Asset](./unstructured_data/unstructured_data_data_assets.png)

Reviewer: This alt text is not descriptive enough. It repeats info already provided in the surrounding prose. When I write alt text, I think through the following
- What is the purpose of including the image?
- What information is conveyed by the image that isn’t explicitly communicated in surrounding prose?

For inspiration, here are a couple ways I could imagine more descriptive alt text going for this image. but perhaps you were including the image for a different purpose. 

>The page lists the following information: Data Asset name, Data Source, Last validated, Status, and Coverage.

or

> If you have many Data Assets, you can search, sort, or filter the Data Assets list to find a particular entry.

> Click into the Data Asset and then to the Validations tab. Select the Expectation Suite that was created above and then select the specific Validation result that was just run.

Reviewer: comma to join two independent clauses. Styling for UI reference. 

I think it would be more clear to refer to the Expectation Suite by name and give more wayfinding info for where the suite and the validation run are found. 

I find "specific Validation result that was just run" to be odd wording - running the Validation produces a result, I don't think the result itself is run.

suggestion also removes some passive voice

```suggestion
Click into the Data Asset and then to the **Validations** tab. Under **Expectation Suites**, select the `OCR Confidence` suite  that you created above, and then under **Batches & run history**, select the Validation you just ran.
```

> ![View Validation Results](./unstructured_data/unstructured_data_validation_results.png)

Reviewer: as above, this alt text is insufficiently descriptive. For inspiration, here are a couple ways I could imagine this being more descriptive. But, perhaps you were including the image for a different reason

> All Data Assets have a default GX-managed Expectation Suite in addition to any Suites you create for API-managed Expectations.

> In this example, the Validation Results show 1 successful Expectation and 2 failed Expectations. The failed Expectations provide a sample of unexpected values.

## The path forward

> Using this tutorial as a framework, you can try plugging in your own unstructured data, as well as add other Expectations from the [Expectation Gallery](https://greatexpectations.io/expectations) to the Expectation Suite. Finally, validating your unstructured data can also be done within a data pipeline, so executing this code using an orchestrator should be explored as well.

Reviewer: I think it would be helpful to link to orchestrator info here

suggestion also swaps passive voice for active

```suggestion
Using this tutorial as a framework, you can try plugging in your own unstructured data, as well as add other Expectations from the [Expectation Gallery](https://greatexpectations.io/expectations) to the Expectation Suite. You can also explore validating your unstructured data [within a data pipeline](/reference/learn/integrations/data_pipeline_tutorial.md) by using this code with an orchestrator.
```

> Ensuring the quality of your unstructured data is essential for businesses that rely on it, but this is only one of many data quality issues that is relevant to your organization. Explore our other [data quality use cases](/reference/learn/data_quality_use_cases/dq_use_cases_lp.md) for more insights and best practices to expand your data validation to encompass key quality dimensions.

Reviewer: It seems like the addresse/audience shifts a bit in the first sentence. 

- "your unstructured data" speaks to the reader directly
- "businesses that rely on it" speaks in the abstract
-  "your organization" is direct to the reader again.

Could the perspective here be made more consistent?

Also I find "is essential for businesses that rely on it" to be a bit of a circular description. Could there be more of a distinction between what the business is doing (relying on it) and it impact that has to the business (is essential)? 

I'm wary of using the term "data quality issue" in this context since elsewhere this term refers to how we categorize Expectations (for example, in the gallery). I suggest saying "scenarios" instead of "issues" 

<img width="1227" height="565" alt="Screenshot 2025-09-18 at 1 08 13 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9d8910f2-8285-4c85-aa15-5772f6ca5e39" />

---
sidebar_label: 'Unstructured data'
title: 'Validate unstructured data with GX Cloud'

> description: 'Learn how to validate metadata from scanned PDFs using GX Cloud'

Reviewer: descriptions should end in periods. Apologies for not indicating this when I shared the syntax for descriptions 

```suggestion
description: 'Learn how to validate metadata from scanned PDFs using GX Cloud.'
```

---

Enterprise data often consists of large amounts of unstructured data such as PDFs, images, emails, and sensor logs, but many often find it difficult to validate the quality of it. Data quality issues related to unstructured data can often go unnoticed, leading to downstream problems. For example, an AI model may be compromised if duplicate documents and failed OCR (Optical Character Recognition) do not get immediately flagged, leading to poor outputs.

This tutorial provides a working, hands-on example of how to validate unstructured data using sample PDF data and GX Cloud. An OCR process on a PDF doesn't just extract text; it produces metadata like confidence scores, and word counts. GX Cloud allows you to set up data quality checks on this metadata to maximize the confidence in your unstructured data, all while allowing your collaborators to view the results. 

> ## Prerequisite Knowledge

Reviewer: sentence case

```suggestion
## Prerequisite knowledge
```

This article assumes basic familiarity with GX components and workflows. If you're new to GX, start with the [GX Cloud](/cloud/overview/gx_cloud_overview.md) and [GX Core](/core/introduction/gx_overview.md) overviews to familiarize yourself with key concepts and setup procedures.

## Prerequisites

- [Python version 3.9 to 3.12](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
- A [GX Cloud account](https://greatexpectations.io/cloud)

> Your [Cloud credentials](/cloud/connect/connect_python.md#get-your-credentials) saved in your [environment variables](/cloud/connect/connect_python.md#set-your-credentials-as-environment-variables).

Reviewer: sorry a suggestion of mine that you committed here had a typo that makes this display incorrectly

there should be three bullet points

```suggestion
- Your [Cloud credentials](/cloud/connect/connect_python.md#get-your-credentials) saved in your [environment variables](/cloud/connect/connect_python.md#set-your-credentials-as-environment-variables)
```

<img width="716" height="168" alt="Screenshot 2025-09-22 at 2 47 16 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4b413bb4-8a2b-4680-a07f-13284de077cd" />

> ## Install dependencies

Reviewer: Thanks for removing the "Step x" preface from each header. I [still think that substeps within each section should be formatted as numbered lists](https://github.com/great-expectations/great_expectations/pull/11380#discussion_r2359679517) for consistenccy with the rest of the docs and for readability. I'll add suggestions in this first section to help demonstrate what I mean. Please apply the principle across all sections with multiple substeps.

> Open a terminal window and navigate to the folder you want to use for this tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open a terminal window and navigate to the folder you want to use for this tutorial.
```

> Install [poppler](https://poppler.freedesktop.org/) and [tesseract](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract). Poppler is a PDF rendering library that this tutorial uses to read the PDFs. Tesseract is an open source OCR engine that this tutorial uses to from OCR on the PDFs.

Reviewer: typo

numbered steps

```suggestion
2. Install [poppler](https://poppler.freedesktop.org/) and [tesseract](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract). Poppler is a PDF rendering library that this tutorial uses to read the PDFs. Tesseract is an open source OCR engine that this tutorial uses to perfrom OCR on the PDFs.
```

```bash title="Terminal input"
brew install poppler
brew install tesseract

> ```

Reviewer: I can't add a suggestion for this because github doesn't handle nested code fences, but code blocks should be indented under the related numbered step

> Optional. Create a Python virtual environment and start it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Optional. Create a Python virtual environment and start it.
```

```bash title="Terminal input"
python -m venv my_venv
source my_venv/bin/activate
```

> Install the Python libraries that you will use in this tutorial, including the Great Expectations library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Install the Python libraries that you will use in this tutorial, including the Great Expectations library.
```

```bash title="Terminal input"
pip install datasets
pip install pdf2image
pip install pytesseract
pip install great_expectations
```

## Import the required Python libraries

Create the Python file for this project.

```bash title="Terminal input"
touch gx_unstructured_data.py
```

Open the Python file in your code editor of choice. 

> Import the libraries you will be using in this tutorial.

Reviewer: suggestion to make the framing more specific so the reader isn't confused about imports that happen outside of this section

```suggestion
Import the libraries you will be using for data validation in this tutorial.
```

Reviewer: @r34ctor it looks like you missed [this comment](https://github.com/great-expectations/great_expectations/pull/11380/files#r2370391470) from the last round of feedback so I'll reiterate:

suggestion to make the framing more specific so the reader isn't confused about imports that happen outside of this section

```suggestion
Import the libraries you will be using for data validation in this tutorial.
```

```python title="Python" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/reference/learn/data_quality_use_cases/unstructured_data/unstructured_data.py - create the expectation suite"
```

## Validate your Expectations
GX uses a Validation Definition to link a Batch Definition and Expectation Suite. A Checkpoint will be used to execute Validations. The results of the Validations can be later viewed through the GX Cloud UI.

```python title="Python" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/reference/learn/data_quality_use_cases/unstructured_data/unstructured_data.py - create the vd and run the checkpoint"
```

## Review the results
Now that you have set up the Data Source, Data Asset, Expectations, and have run the Checkpoint, the Validation Results can be viewed in the GX Cloud UI. 

Log in to GX Cloud, navigate to the **Data Assets** page, and find the `OCR Results` Data Asset that we used earlier in the tutorial.

![The Data Assets page lists all of the Data Assets that have been created. The list can be filtered by using the search function.](./unstructured_data/unstructured_data_data_assets.png)

> Click into the Data Asset and then to the **Validations** tab. Under **Expectation Suites**, select the `OCR Confidence` suite that you created above, and then under **Batches & run history**, select the Validation you just ran.

Reviewer: lingering reference to old suite name

```suggestion
Click into the Data Asset and then to the **Validations** tab. Under **Expectation Suites**, select the `OCR Metrics Suite` suite that you created above, and then under **Batches & run history**, select the Validation you just ran.
```

- A [GX Cloud account](https://greatexpectations.io/cloud)
- Your [Cloud credentials](/cloud/connect/connect_python.md#get-your-credentials) saved in your [environment variables](/cloud/connect/connect_python.md#set-your-credentials-as-environment-variables)

## Install dependencies

1. Open a terminal window and navigate to the folder you want to use for this tutorial.

2. Install [poppler](https://poppler.freedesktop.org/) and [tesseract](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract). Poppler is a PDF rendering library that this tutorial uses to read the PDFs. Tesseract is an open source OCR engine that this tutorial uses to perfrom OCR on the PDFs.

   ```bash title="Terminal input"
   brew install poppler
   brew install tesseract
   ```

3. Optional. Create a Python virtual environment and start it.

   ```bash title="Terminal input"
   python -m venv my_venv
   source my_venv/bin/activate
   ```

4. Install the Python libraries that you will use in this tutorial, including the Great Expectations library.

   ```bash title="Terminal input"
   pip install pandas
   pip install datasets
   pip install pdf2image
   pip install pytesseract
   pip install great_expectations
   ```

> ## Import the required Python libraries

Reviewer: Thanks for formatting the steps in the first section as a numbered list. In the [last round of feedback](https://github.com/great-expectations/great_expectations/pull/11380#discussion_r2370410333), I asked that this formatting be applied to all sections with multiple substeps. Please format the instructions in the following sections as numbered lists with code blocks indented under their associated numbered step

- Import the required Python libraries
- Load the dataset and convert it into a dataframe
- Connect to GX Cloud and define Expectations
- Review the results

1. Instantiate the GX Data Context and get or create the Data Source, Data Asset, and Batch Definition.
   ```python title="Python" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/reference/learn/data_quality_use_cases/unstructured_data/unstructured_data.py - create the GX entities"
   ```

2. Get or create an Expectation Suite and create Expectations to validate the metrics generated from the PDFs. This tutorial utilizes the `ExpectColumnValuesToBeBetween` Expectation in order to validate that the metrics we stored in the dataframe meet our parameters. You can also try using different Expectations or value ranges.

   ```python title="Python" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/reference/learn/data_quality_use_cases/unstructured_data/unstructured_data.py - create the expectation suite"
   ```

## Validate your Expectations
GX uses a Validation Definition to link a Batch Definition and Expectation Suite. A Checkpoint will be used to execute Validations. The results of the Validations can be later viewed through the GX Cloud UI.

> 1. Create the Validation Defintion and Checkpoint

Reviewer: This section only has one step, so I didn't expect to see it get formatted as a numbered list. (It wasn't included in [my list of sections to update](https://github.com/great-expectations/great_expectations/pull/11380#discussion_r2372834001))

I like that there's now an imperative instruction in this section, but do have some concerns about the implementation:
- this new line has some typos
- it's a bit odd to have a numbered list with only one item in it
- this instruction obfuscates part of what's happening in the associated code sample.

I suggest breaking this up into two steps. This will involve breaking the snippet below into two separate ones. I can't leave a suggestion for that because GitHub doesn't support nested code fences in comments. 

I'll leave a suggestion for fixing the typos in this section and share what the end result should be like after breaking this into two steps

```suggestion
1. Create the Validation Definition and Checkpoint.
```

---

Expected output:

1. Create the Validation Definition and Checkpoint.

   ```Python
   try:
       vd = context.validation_definitions.get("OCR Results VD")
   except gxexceptions.DataContextError:
       vd = gx.ValidationDefinition(
           data=batch_definition, suite=suite, name="OCR Results VD"
       )
       context.validation_definitions.add(vd)
   try:
       checkpoint = context.checkpoints.get("OCR Checkpoint")
   except gxexceptions.DataContextError:
       checkpoint = gx.Checkpoint(name="OCR Checkpoint", validation_definitions=[vd])
       context.checkpoints.add(checkpoint)
   ```
2. Pass the dataframe to the Checkpoint and run it.

   ```Python
   checkpoint.run(batch_parameters={"dataframe": df})
   ```

## Validate your Expectations
GX uses a Validation Definition to link a Batch Definition and Expectation Suite. A Checkpoint will be used to execute Validations. The results of the Validations can be later viewed through the GX Cloud UI.

> 1. Create the Validation Defintion.

Reviewer: There's still a typo here

```suggestion
1. Create the Validation Definition.
```
